---
title: About
layout: about
permalink: /about.html
# include CollectionBuilder info at bottom
credits: true
# Edit the markdown on in this file to describe your collection
# Look in _includes/feature for options to easily add features to the page
---

{% include feature/jumbotron.html objectid="/assets/img/jj-ying-WmnsGyaFnCQ-unsplash_opt.jpg" %}

## What are Human Rights Archives?

Caswell (2014) defines human rights archives as collections of records that document systemic and violent abuses of power [^1]. Under this expansive conceptualization, such archives include not only holdings of organizations explicitly identifying as human rights entities or the records produced by global truth commissions, but also documentation generated by nongovernmental organizations, communities, and private individuals who record violations of human rights and international humanitarian law. This comprehensive understanding extends to archives preserving evidence of slavery, the persecution of LGBTQ communities, violence against Indigenous peoples, and other historically or contemporarily marginalized struggles.

Viebach (2021) introduces the related concept of *transitional archives*, designed to emphasize the "multi-layered afterlife" of human rights records and their open-ended, continually evolving nature [^2]. By framing such records as transitional archives, Viebach highlights their status as products of power and negotiation, while also underlining the persistent tension between what these documents record and their intended goals of justice and reconciliation. From this perspective, these archives must undergo constant reactivation and reinterpretation to remain effective instruments of accountability (Viebach, 2020).

## References

[^1] Caswell, M. (2014). Defining human rights archives: Introduction to the special double issue on archives and human rights. Archival Science, 14(3), 207–213. [https://doi.org/10.1007/s10502-014-9226-0](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10502-014-9226-0)
[^2] Viebach, J. (2021). Transitional archives: Towards a conceptualisation of archives in transitional justice. The International Journal of Human Rights, 25(3), 403–439. [https://doi.org/10.1080/13642987.2020.1811693](https://doi.org/10.1080/13642987.2020.1811693)


